---
layout: page
title: Research
permalink: /research/
subtitle: Ongoing and future research projects
---


<span style="font-size: 14px !important; color: #0055A9;"><b>Research keywords:</b> fMRI; Machine learning; Neuroimaging biomarker; Translational research; Predictive modeling; Brain decoding, Encoding-decoding model; Pain; Emotions; Psychiatric and neurologic disorders; Mind-body interaction; Behavioral medicine; Network science; Psychological and social pain modulation; Emotion regulation, and more.</span>

<center><hr style="width:500px;height:1px;border:none;color:#ccc;background-color:#ccc;" /></center>
<br>

<span style="font-size: 15px !important;">How does the brain represent, process, and regulate pain and affective experiences? My research goal is to answer this research question to provide a better understanding of pain and emotional distress, and eventually a better help for our lives, our families, and our neighbors suffering from those.</span>  

<span style="font-size: 15px !important; color: #BD0026;"><b>FMRI-based biomarker:</b></span> <span style="font-size: 15px !important;">Functional brain measures, which show the brain <i>in action</i>, can offer important, unique contributions to making pain and emotion visible by providing their objective measures. Neuroimaging-based biomarkers could support better assessment, diagnosis, and prognosis and provide a rich window through which we can integrate psychological knowledge with neuroscience and medicine. My research primarily focuses on developing fMRI-based biomarkers for pain and emotion (and relevant clinical conditions) using machine learning and other advanced statistical methods, such as network analysis (Wager et al., 2013; Woo et al., 2014).</span>  

<span style="font-size: 15px !important; color: #BD0026;"><b>Pain regulation, Emotion regulation:</b></span> <span style="font-size: 15px !important">My research also focuses on the neural mechanisms of the psychological influences on pain (Woo et al., 2015). Pain is more than just responding to noxious stimuli. For example, severely injured soldiers in a battle report minimal or less pain than normally expected. Conversely, chronic pain patients report intense pain with no evident physical causes. Psychological factors such as expectation, placebo, distraction, and reappraisal can effectively change pain experience, as used in various forms of psychotherapy for pain. Pain is also a multi-dimensional experience with sensory, cognitive, and evaluative aspects. Therefore, identifying brain systems for different aspects of pain, and understanding the neural mechanisms of the top-down influences on pain are crucial for assessing chronic pain patients and predicting which type of therapy will be effective. This line of research will eventually help accomplish my long-term research goal, establishing a foundation of the personalized medicine for patients suffering from pain and emotional distress.</span>  

<span style="font-size: 15px !important; color: #BD0026;"><b>Translational research:</b></span> <span style="font-size: 15px !important">In spite of growing interests in using neuroimaging as predictive tools (i.e., biomarkers) for the clinical purpose, such tools have not yet made their way into clinical practice. However, given the potential uses of fMRI-based biomarkers in multiple aspects of prevention and treatment—such as risk and symptom assessment, diagnosis, prognosis, treatment selection, drug discovery, and more—efforts to discover neuroimaging-based biomarkers have been expanding. Particularly, recent advances in human neuroimaging, combined with machine learning techniques, are bringing us closer to the goal. However, translations from basic research to clinical use have been more difficult and slower than initially expected. Indeed, a big gap, sometimes called the ‘valley of death’ (Butler, 2008), between basic and clinical research is common across fields, and neuroimaging appears to be no exception. My research focuses on facilitating bidirectional "translations" (bench-to-bedside and bedside-to-bench) by developing a new approach, a predictive mapping approach, to study human cognition, emotions, and clinical conditions (Woo et al., in preparation).</span>
